So there's a question of why would you use the terminal?
Now, it's a good question
because when you look at this black screen,
there's very little there.
It's very unintuitive.
It's not particularly user friendly.
But it's survived a good couple of decades worth of usage
and it's still driving a lot of the computers
that we have now and even Windows in the last year
has landed a Bash shell.
So this thing, the same terminal access.
So, why would you use this over something else?
Now, the thing about something else is
you've got a browser to browse websites,
you maybe have some Photoshop to do image manipulation,
you might use, I don't know, like some text editors
to do text manipulation or writing.
But the terminal,
you can use all of these,
you can use lots of different programmes from the terminal.
So terminal is just a way in.
We have lots and lots of programmes inside of the terminal,
or available to us in the terminal.
Some very, very low level kind of fundamental programmes,
like we have a file called cat, a programme called cat, sorry,
which will just take the contents of a file
and put it on the screen.
We have things like ls, which will do a directory listing.
We have du, which means disc usage.
So I can see how much disc usage is being used
by all these directories.
We've got disc space,
again not intuitive to look at,
but once you, you can combine all of these tools,
and something that I might do quite frequently
is I will be, I'll take a very big log file, for instance,
and I'll just want to get maybe
how many times someone requested one particular file.
Now I can open that in something like Sublime
or Atom and count how many times
a particular string occurs,
but it's very easy for me to go to the terminal
and I can cat that file out,
so I just start kind of echoing the contents
of the file out to the screen,
and then I can run it through another programme
called grep, which will find the occurrences
of the string I'm looking for and only print those,
and then I can pipe that into another programme,
I can take the output from grep
and put that into another programme called unique
and that will give me the number of unique counts
for that particular string.
All from the command line in just a couple of commands
just kind of mashing them together.
So it's very powerful for that kind of thing.
And I'm sure you've come across tutorials,
which are just open the terminal,
go ahead and instal this.
And we'll look at how to instal programmes
in one of the later videos.